#  Airbnb Home Prices Prediction 


## Introduction

With the aid of __machine learning__ and __data science__, it is possible to predict the prices of houses respectively. There are features such as __longitude__ and __latitude__ that help determine the prices along with other features such as neighborhood and the demand for the area. 


## Metrics

The problem that we are trying to consider is the price prediction which is a __regression__ problem. Hence, we should choose the metrics that are important for the regression problem. Below are the metrics that were considered for this problem.

* [__Mean Squared Error (MSE)__](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.mean_squared_error.html)
* [__Mean Absolute Error (MAE)__](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.mean_absolute_error.html)

## Machine Learning Analysis 

Taking into consideration these features, __machine learning predictions__ could be built. It is important to perform __Exploratory Data Analysis__ to predict the demand for these houses as well. There could be __null__ values that must also be addressed before giving those values to the models. Steps must be taken to ensure that models don't __overfit__ the data or __underfit__ it. 

## Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)

* It would be seen based on the results from the KDE plot that there are a few outliers in the prices of houses. Therefore, those prices had to be removed to reduce the mean squared error or mean absolute error of the models. __Removing outliers__ is a good idea as not all the models are robust to outliers. 
* A large portion of the users from Airbnb were willing to rent the entire apartment instead of a __private room__ or a __shared room__ respectively.
* A large number of houses taken into consideration were from __Manhattan__ followed by __Brooklyn__. 
* There were very few houses from __Staten Island__ compared to the other cities. 

## Machine Learning Models

There are many libraries from __sklearn__ which we might be using for our machine learning predictions. Below are the best performing __machine learning__ and __deep learning models__ that were used in the prediction of house prices.

* [__Decision Trees__](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.tree.DecisionTreeRegressor.html)
* [__Random Forests__](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.ensemble.RandomForestRegressor.html)
* [__Neural Networks__](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.neural_network.MLPRegressor.html)

## Outcomes 

* Hosts who are using __Airbnb application__ could benefit by using these algorithms in setting up the price so that it ensures that there is maximum profit generated by them.
* This would also lead to a growth and increase in revenue for __Airbnb__. 

## Future Scope

* __Additional features__ such as __weather conditions__ and the __crime rate__ present in the localities also help determine the prices of houses which could be added to improve the __performance__ of machine learning models. 
* The output from the __best models__ should be integrated in __AirBnb application (app)__ so that hosts can determine the best price and this leads to their __higher engagement__ in the application. 
* The __best machine learning model__ could also be deployed in the cloud such as in __Amazon Web Services (AWS)__ so that we can host our product on websites so that it is accessible to users across different regions. 
